("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- [Narrator] Ronja and
Birk spent a perfect day
enjoying the warmth
of springtime.
But when she
returned to the fort,
Ronja found Sturkas,
wounded by an arrow
from a Borka Robber.
- Argh!
This is only the start.
I'll crush each one of them!
(peaceful music)
- [Lovis] There we go.
(groaning)
- Will he be all right?
- He'll be fine.
Bed.
Impressive Sturkas.
That wound's already closed.
- Well.
Heh heh.
- Look he's embarrassed!
(laughter)
- Ow.
- Sturkas!
- Sorry to worry you all.
I'm much better now.
- You've healed already?
- As you can see, I'm a
little weak in the legs,
but otherwise I'm quite spry.
Right?
- [Robber] Ooh!
- [Robber] Looking
good, Sturkas!
- [Robber] Don't trip now!
- [Narrator] By the
fourth day, Sturkas
was finally able to
get up and walk around.
Ronja had believed that
the feud between Mattis
and Borka would cool down,
but instead it flared up again
and threatened to boil over.
- One, two, three, four.
Thank goodness.
They're all safely home.
Mattis.
- Hm?
- What happened
between you and Borka?
Tell me, why are you out
for each other's blood?
- You should ask Borka.
After all, he shot
the first arrow.
Sturkas can tell you that.
- That child has more
sense than you have.
This can only end badly,
in bloodshed and misery.
Is that what you want, Mattis?
And what good exactly
would that do us?
- And what good
Oh I'll tell you exactly what!
We'd finally be rid of Borka
and his vermin forever!
And that would be good.
- Good for who, Mattis?
Why must there be
all this bloodshed?
Is that really what
you want to do?
There must be another way.
- Why don't you find
another way, then?
Since you're so clever.
You can get Borka
out of the fort,
then he can settle down as
peaceful as a fox in its den,
and all his thieving
pups around him!
Oh, I promise, I won't
even lay a hand on them!
Although, I must be at
least allowed to kill Borka.
I can't have my men
thinking of me as a coward!
Listen, all of you.
If we see Borka, we attack!
- Yeah!
- Let's go!
Hiyah!
(slow music)
- Birk.
- Yes?
And now, even spring's
been ruined for both of us.
Thanks to our fathers.
Stubborn mules.
Those old men
deserve each other.
- Birk, if I didn't
have you as a brother
I'd have known nothing
about any of this.
And maybe I wouldn't have minded
that Mattis and
Borka are enemies.
So it's your fault.
Your fault that I'm so unhappy.
I blame you, Birk Borkason!
- Blame me, sure, if it
makes you feel better.
But I'm worried as well.
- I know, it's terrible,
not knowing who will be alive
and who will be dead
when the day is done.
- Well, at least
nobody's died yet, Ronja.
Although that's only
because the sheriff's men
have returned, and
now they're swarming
through the forest once again.
Mattis and Borka simply haven't
had the chance to
kill each other.
They have their hands full,
keeping away from the soldiers.
- Suppose that will keep
them busy for a little while.
- Just imagine the sheriff's
men actually being useful?
Who'd have thought it?
(laughing)
- All the same, it's
something else to worry about.
(whistles)
- They're both such nightmares.
And yet, they spend
their days so peacefully.
- Bye Birk, see you tomorrow?
- See you tomorrow.
Maybe there won't be
joy as there once was.
- Ronja.
- Ronja!
Hurry on home!
- Something good
must have happened!
It's so obvious.
Your faces give you both away!
- Oh, yes indeed,
you're right there!
Go and see for yourself!
- I will!
- Hurry!
- Ronja!
- I'm coming!
(laughter)
- Oh, Ronja, you're back!
You were right all along!
There was another way.
Now there will be no
need for bloodshed.
And Borka can go
to blazes faster
than his first belch
after breakfast!
Believe me!
- Great, and how
will you do that?
- Take a look.
See who I caught
with my own hands.
You see, Ronja,
I only have to say
to that Borka devil,
"Are you staying in the fort?
"Or might you be going?"
Borka, do you want that little
snake of yours back, or not?
(gasp)
Well, little Borkason,
are you going home
to your father?
Hmm?
(laughter)
(shriek)
You can't do that!
You beast, you can't do that!
You can't!
- I can't do that?
And what is it that my
daughter says I can't do?
- I'll tell you!
Ah!
You can go robbing all
the gold and silver
and rubbish that you want!
But no, you can't hurt people!
Because if you do Mattis,
I no longer want
to be your child!
- Who's talking about people?
What I've caught here
is a little snake.
At best he's a louse
or a thieving hound.
This fortress has been in
our clan for generations,
and now I'm going to
get it cleaned out.
And once that's done, you
can be my daughter or not
just as you choose.
- I despise you!
I hate you!
- Oh Ronja, that's no way
to talk to your father.
Come away.
- Do you hear me, I hate you!
- Fjosok.
- Yes?
- Send a message.
Tell Borka I'll be waiting.
Tomorrow morning, at Hell's Gap.
He'd better be there,
for the boy's sake.
- [Fjosok] Yes, Chief!
- [Mattis] Don't you lay a
hand on that little snake!
- Whether he's a snake or not
this wound has to be cleaned.
- Lovis!
- Why'd you hit me?
- Listen, all you men!
You can all just go and
fall into Hell's Gap!
You never do anything
but cause trouble!
Do you hear me, Mattis?
Throw yourself into Hell's Gap!
- Birk!
I hate you!
Mattis!
- [Narrator] That
night, Mattis did not go
to bed beside Lovis.
Nobody knew where he
slept, not even her.
- Now I can sleep how I like.
Lie lengthwise or
crosswise in this bed.
(sobs)
- [Ronja] Don't.
- [Narrator] Ronja lay
awake hating her father
until she felt her
heart contract in pain.
But it's difficult
to hate someone
you have loved your whole life.
That was why for Ronja, this
was the darkest of nights.
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
"Endless Fighting, Part Two".
Don't miss it!
(upbeat music)